Max and Megan
byCambriaRose

**Max and Megan might be a story you remember. You may be wondering why it's showing back up as a new story. I was not fond of the first version. I wrote for what people wanted, not what I wanted. One night, I decided to take it down and polish it up to what I could be proud of. It is a bit different than the original, but in my opinion much, much better...Enjoy! **



It was late in the afternoon when Megan decided to look over her college report. It was due the next week, but she wasn't going to get a good grade by procrastinating. She was glancing through the stack of papers she had printed out earlier, when her door creaked open.

"Don't you know to lock the door?" A man's voice asked her.

For a split second she was afraid some man had broken into the house. She whipped her head around quickly. Her fear turned into joy when she saw who it was. She squealed and launched herself off the bed. "Max!"

He laughed at her, catching her in his arms. He hugged her tightly in his arms. "I'm on leave for the next week, I thought I'd come see you while I had the chance."

Megan pulled back and looked up at him, beaming ear to ear. "I missed you so much."

"I missed you, too." He smiled warmly at her. He hadn't realized just how much he would miss her when he had left home for the Army. He had missed her more than he had missed being at home. The thought was a bit scary and odd to him. She was, after all, just his best friend.

He chuckled at the memory of how they had met. She was in second grade, he in fourth. Max had been out in his backyard playing a game of baseball when he hit a grand slam to beat all grand slams. It flew over the fence, soaring through the sky until it crashed through the neighbor's upstairs window. All Max's friends swiftly left in horror, afraid they would be in trouble.

It took two minutes for a knock to sound on the front door. Max's mother forced him to open it, knowing it was going to be Mr. Peterson, the neighbor. When he opened the door, it was not a man at all. It was a girl, and she was red as a beet.

"You broke my horse!" She screamed at him, her face red and puffy from crying.

Before Max could answer, she punched him square in the nose and left him bleeding on the doorstep.

Max hugged Megan one last time before letting her go. He stared at her. Had she tanned? Did she have more freckles? Her strawberry red hair was longer than he remembered. Her green eyes seemed brighter than before. She still smelled faintly like vanilla, a scent that even then was secretly driving him crazy. She wore a faded t-shirt and a pair of jeans.

"Are you going to stand there staring at me all day, Romeo?" She lightly punched him in the arm.

He snapped out of his trance. "No, I want to know what you've been up to lately."

***

Long after midnight the two ran out of things to talk about. Megan had told him all about college, and Max talked about some of the things he'd seen and done while away.

"I wish I could just stay here. I don't feel like going home. It's just an empty apartment with a bed and a TV."

"So stay here. We're both adults, it isn't like you're going to jump my bones or anything." She giggled at the preposterous thought. He was nothing short of a gentleman.

"You never know." He winked. "Are you sure your dad wouldn't mind? I know you said he is on his fishing 'man-cation', but I don't know how he'd feel about it."

"Max, Dad loves you like a son. He wouldn't mind if you stayed."

He knew she was right. Hal had always treated him as if he were an extended son.

"Do you have clothes with you?" Megan asked, crawling off the bed and walking over to her closet.

"No, I took a shower and came right over." He replied as he watched her pull a pair of red plaid pajama pants and a grey t-shirt out of the closet. "I get lonely sometimes."

Megan knew the feeling. She had thrown herself into her schoolwork to keep her mind off the fact that her best friend was in a dangerous part of the world, while she was all alone. She smiled at him as she left the room. "I'm glad you came to see me."

***

Freshly changed, Megan walked back into her bedroom. Max was on her bed, resting against her pillows. He glanced at her for a moment before speaking.

"Hey, isn't that my shirt?"

"It was. Now it's mine." She stuck her tongue out at him.

"Oh, really?" He jeered as he sat up. He leaned and with a long muscled arm yanked her forward by the shirt. Caught off guard, she fell against his torso. He stopped pulling for a second. They just looked at each other for what seemed like minutes but was merely a second or two. "It looks better on you." He said simply and let her go.

"Damn right it does." She stood back up and smoothed the wrinkles out of the shirt.

"Can I sleep with you?" Max asked quietly looking up at her. He figured she would say no, but he wasn't ready to leave.

To his surprise, she nodded a simple yes.

Megan had crawled under the covers by the time Max flipped the light switch off. He undid his leather belt, unzipped his jeans and let them drop to the floor. He shrugged off his shirt. The bed dipped under his weight and the sheets rustled as he got in the tiny twin sized bed.

"Max?"

"What?"

"You are going to fall out if you sleep on the edge, silly." She giggled in the dark. God, he'd missed that laugh. He moved an inch closer to her. They lay face to face.

"I've missed you." Her voice had a sad tone to it. "I wish you could stay longer."

"Me too." His hand searched for hers under the blanket. When he found it, he rubbed his thumb mindlessly over her knuckles. He would give just about anything to not leave her. But, he had no choice. He would have to just enjoy the visit, no matter how short it was.

As Max rubbed her fingers, he could tell it was soothing Megan right to sleep. Her breathing changed to a deep, even breaths. As he idly held her hand in his, the tugging of sleep soon overtook him also.

***

The man was standing in front of him, his eyes wild. "I had your little girlfriend." He cackled in an unnatural voice. "She was really great, if you know what I mean. A real firecracker. "

Max growled at the foreign man, his vision going red with anger. He grabbed the man around the neck and began to squeeze. "Goddamn you! You better not have touched her!"

"Max. Max. Max." The man's voice took on a weird muted sound. "Max, wake up!"

His eyes flew open. He blinked a few times in the darkness before he realized Megan was clawing at his arms and wrists. He had been choking her in his sleep. He let go of her, horrified. She coughed and gasped for air.

"Oh my God, are you okay? I'm so sorry Megan!" He rushed, disgusted at himself while being afraid he'd really hurt her. He rolled over and quickly turned the light on, blinding them both.

"I'm okay." She hoarsely explained. He cringed at the red marks he'd made on her neck.

"I swear I was asleep." He grabbed her and hugged her to him. "I would never hurt you." He was near panicking. How could he have done that to her?

"It's okay, Max. I'm alright."

He could tell when she was afraid. She was playing brave but here she was, looking shaken at what he had done. He never was violent towards her.

"Megan." He rocked her back and forth, rubbing his hand on her back. "I am sorry."

She pulled back and looked into his panic stricken eyes. "I know you didn't mean to."

"I am going to go home." He abruptly let her go. He grabbed his pants and yanked them on. "I don't trust myself around you."

"No, stay." She reached for him.

Max fended off her touch. "I hurt you." He raked a hand over his short brown hair while he let out a jagged breath. "You are all I have, and what did I nearly do? You are so small and helpless and I could've killed you with my bare hands."

"But you didn't. It was nothing but a dream, it wasn't real." She placed a hand over his heart. It was racing under her palm.

He inclined towards her until their foreheads lightly touched. It was slightly awkward because at six foot two he loomed over her. "I could never live with myself if I hurt you."

Megan wrapped her arms around him and embraced him tightly. "Please stay."

He didn't reply, but he didn't push her away either. He laid his chin on her head and held her. How could he trust himself to not hurt her again if he stayed?

After a few minutes of standing, he began walking her backwards towards the bed. Her knees hit the bed and she instinctively let him go and sat down. She looked at him for a moment before he shut the light off again. He dropped his jeans to the floor and climbed back in bed with her. He rolled on his side to face away from her. His mind was torn at whether he should leave or stay.

A cold hand ran under his arm and snaked around to rest on his chest. He took her hand in his and brought it to his lips, placing a kiss on them. He felt her yawn against his back as she snuggled into him. He once again began to warm her hand until she was asleep.

Max rolled over to face her. A sliver of moonlight poured in from the window providing him enough light to see Megan's face. He reached over and moved a stray hair out of her eyes. She did not seem to notice when he brushed his hand lightly over her cheek.

He had wanted to be more than friends for as long as he could remember. He was so scared she would reject him, and then he'd have no Megan, no friendship, and would be left with no one. She was the only one in the world who cared about him. He didn't ever want to lose that, even if it meant just being her friend. It would hurt like hell but it was better than nothing.

Without thinking, he moved forward and planted a tiny kiss on her soft lips. She stirred in her sleep, moving to face away from him. He put a protective arm over her and rested it on her stomach. He angled his hips away from her; it wouldn't be a good thing for her to wake up with her best friend's rod poking her in the back. Knowing Megan she'd probably knock him out. He chuckled quietly and moved her hair off her neck. He lightly kissed the nape of her neck. She let out a sigh.

"You like that." He continued placing butterfly kisses from her ear to her shoulder. He knew he should stop. Not only was it not helping his downstairs problem, it was going beyond what was okay for a friend to be doing.

He didn't even ask if she had met another man. What if she had? He couldn't bear the thought of another man holding her or touching her. Had she grown up in the sexual sense? His hand that lay on her stomach began rubbing in small circles. Her shirt rode up a little each pass of the circle. He wondered if she would let him rest his hand on her bare skin. He felt it best not to try and stopped kissing her neck. He needed to stop or he'd take advantage of her.

Max sighed and pulled her closer to him. He closed his eyes, vowing to himself he would not fall asleep. Her breathing quieted as she settled back into sleep. He glanced back at the clock on the nightstand. Three AM. He sighed and snuggled Megan close.

He awoke to an odd fluttery feeling. It was a brush of something on his chest. He cracked an eyelid to see Megan facing him with her hand on his chest. Her finger was rubbing a ragged scar he had received. She leaned down and brushed her lips lightly over it. It took all he had not to drag her up to him and kiss her.

She straightened and moved closer so she was cuddled up against him. Feigning being asleep, Max put his hand on her hip and slid it up under her shirt to rest on her bare side. Her skin was so soft to his touch. Her breathing paused, then resumed when she was sure he was asleep. She placed her leg over his hip lightly and closed her eyes, comfortable.

Before he could stop himself, he pushed his hips forward and ground them into her pelvis. He was as hard as a rock, he knew she would know but he didn't care.

Her eyes flew open to stare wide-eyed at him. "Max!"

"You do that to me. You drive me crazy, Woman." He bumped his hips into her's for emphasis. "You are so damn sexy."

She didn't pull away from him as he pulled her close, placing a hand in the small of her back. He ground his hips in small circular movements against her. "I can't tell you how long I have wanted to do this."

"Max?" She asked in a timid voice.

"Hmm?"

"Do you love me?"

He stilled. Did he love her? Was she that crazy? He grabbed her back and pulled her to him. His lips brushed against hers. "Do I love you? I love you more than you'll ever know. I always have. I always will." He ran his tongue over her lips. He pressed his tongue and her mouth opened. Taking that as a sign of surrender, he plunged it in her mouth.

Max's hands rubbed over her back, grabbing her hips and pulling her in tight. His tongue melded with hers as they kissed passionately, the years of having denied the attraction adding the fuel to the fire. He broke the kiss, moving his lips to her ear. "You do this to me."

Megan arched her back into him, bringing them even closer. He reached for the hem of her shirt, lifting it slightly. "May I?"

She nodded and sat up to take it off. He brushed her hands away. He wanted to do it himself. He pulled her shirt off to reveal her smooth stomach. Her breasts were perfect in the moonlight. He had never seen her naked in all the years he'd known her. Max didn't know what he had been missing. He pushed on her shoulder until she laid back down.

He tilted forward, planting a small kiss above her pants. She gasped. He smiled against her and nipped the skin lightly. He ran his hands up from her hips to the sides of her breasts. Her skin was smooth and hot. He trailed kisses up to her belly button before dipping his tongue in it. Megan inhaled sharply.

He rubbed her stomach in small circles as he kissed around her navel. Her hand came to rest on the back of his head. He raked his teeth against her skin moving up, nipping gently here or there. It was hell on him to go so slow, but he wanted to savor every moment.

Finally, he reached the underside of her left breast. Megan squealed and arched her back up off the bed. Max chuckled. "That was girly. Just you wait."

"Wait....for...what?" She asked breathlessly. His mouth closed over her nipple. "Oh my God!" Her back arched off the bed. Her legs thrashed about. Her head tossed back and forth over the pillow. Her hands flew to the back of his head, holding him to her. She was squirming so much it was hard for him to stay latched on. Her hips thrust in the air as a silent plea. His hand trailed down to her stomach. He rubbed the soft skin and let his fingertips dip below her waistline.

He switched breasts, taking the other between his lips. With his one hand he massaged her breast, the other he tickled under her waistband. His tongue lapped at her hard bud. "Take off your pants." He said with his mouth full.

Megan sat up, struggling to free her pajama pants. "Max, I can't get them off."

He tweaked her nipple between his fingers and she bucked against him. Reluctantly letting go of her nipple, Max put his hand on her tummy and pushed so she laid down. He grasped her pants and pulled down. Soon he threw them on the floor. He touched the band of her underwear but her legs clamped together.

"Max..." She started.

"I won't hurt you. I promise." He kissed her stomach. He trailed his kisses downward over the fabric of her dark colored panties. Her back arched. He kissed the slight bump of her pubic mound. Her audible moan fueled him on as he slid her panties off.

He looked up at her incredulously when he saw she was bare. "You shave?"

She blushed red from head to toe. It made him laugh. Here he was, struggling not to just take her hard and fast, and she still had the decency to be embarrassed. Without hesitation he licked her pussy.

Megan nearly screamed and bucked her hips so hard she slammed her pubic bone into his nose. He rubbed it, and then wiggled it between her nether lips. His tongue ran the length of her slit. The skin there was as soft as the rest of her. Her breathing was erratic, her hips thrusting on his face. He took the cue and wiggled his tongue as far as it would go in her pussy. He sucked her sweet juices as they flowed out of her. Her hands pressed his head to her, her thighs clamping around his head.

With his free hand he rubbed at her clitoris. Feeling her so wet, he rose up to kiss her gently as he dropped his boxers to the floor, his erect penis coming into view. He couldn't wait any longer. Her eyes were closed, her neck arched back.

He nudged her knees apart with his own, settling in between them. He grabbed the shaft of his penis and stroked it a few times. Guiding himself to her sweet center, he rubbed the head between her folds.

She gasped and arched against him. "Max."

As he pushed forward, he saw her wince. Her hand shot to his stomach and shoved him back away from her. She wore a look of pain as she wriggled under him. He stopped before he was even in her. Realization hit him like a ton of bricks.

"Are you a virgin?"

"Of course I'm a virgin." She placed her hands on his muscled chest.

"It's going to hurt." He started to shake with the effort to not just cum right there. She gave him a timid nod. He plunged into her. She screamed out in pain.

Max cradled her to him and kissed her. For the second time in his life, he saw Megan cry. He kissed the tears away. "I'm sorry." He held still to let her get accustomed to his large penis. He sneezed, and she gasped. "Sorry, I'm trying to hold still." He grimaced as sweat began to roll off his forehead.

"It felt good. Move again." She whispered.

He made a little thrust in her. She arched her back nearly knocking him off. The pain was subsiding. He made a deeper stroke and she squealed. Losing all resolve he plunged into her. He plunged to the hilt in Megan. She took every thrust, rising to meet him. She started to moan and was near screaming. "Let it out. Scream." He whispered in her ear and bit it. She responded with a guttural groan and wrapped her long legs around his back.

"Something is....I'm going to..." Megan squirmed.

"Cum, Megan, cum for me." Max thrust into her and she exploded. Her pussy contracted around his hard penis. She quivered and shook all around him. Her moaning and screaming was the end for him.

"Megan!" He pleaded when he realized her legs were wrapped around his back, he needed to pull out he hadn't put on a condom. "Megan! Let me...I'm going to...Megan..." He tried peeling her legs off but she was zoned out in post orgasmic world and didn't notice. He felt the familiar tingly feeling starting between his legs. "Megan, I'm going to cum in you, move your legs!" He shook as he held back, but it was too late. "Megan!"

Wave after wave of semen shot from him as he lay above her. God he hoped she was on the pill; she was smart and a prepared person. She released him and he pulled out as the last spurt shot on her stomach. He collapsed beside her, both their breathing harsh and ragged. He grabbed her and hugged her tight.

***

Max rolled over in bed, a hand searching for Megan. She was no longer lying in bed with him. He got up and pulled his boxers and jeans on. He padded downstairs in search for her. She was standing in the kitchen getting a drink. He watched her silently and grinned. She was walking funny and had a rosy glow about her.

"What are you smiling about?" She turned and questioned him.

Before Max could answer, his cell phone rang in his pocket. The caller ID announced that it was his dad. "Hello?"

"Max, your leave is being cut short. You have to be at the airport at eleven." His dad said grimly.

"What? I just got here, why do I have to report back?"

"I don't know, I just know they were looking for you. You better get a move on, it's already ten thirty. Be safe Son." His father hung up. He never was one to care.

Max looked at Megan. A lump formed in his throat. "I have to leave already."

"But you just got here!"

"I know. I'm sorry." He did not want to leave yet, but what else could he do. He'd be pronounced AWOL if he didn't obey the direct orders. "I don't want to leave." He hugged her tightly.

Tears streamed down her face as he said one last goodbye and walked away. He hated that he had to leave, but he also had signed up for it. He could only take it a day at a time until he could return. If he returned alive, that is. 

