Sports in School Curriculum 

Sport and opportunities of play, consistent with the rights of the child to optimum development, has been identified by UNICEF as among the crucial components to the delivery of quality education. Without sports, elementary education would be boring and lifeless for young school children. In fact, sports are vital in the very young lives of kids as it gives them a lot of things to learn about life aside from entertainment and cool moments with friends. Immersing kids in various sports is truly a valuable Endeavour for the things it could bring to children is priceless and even valuable as they get older.

The first reason why children should be encouraged to get involved with sports is discipline. It is a fact that physical training and exercises help to inculcate discipline. Every game or sport has its own set of rules. One has to follow them scrupulously. Martial arts like karate, taekwondo, judo, etc. make kids well disciplined. Further, sports and games give the youngsters an opportunity to lead as well as be lead. Thus, sports help to bring out and nurture the qualities of leadership.

The second reason is sports build a spirit of teamwork as most sports are played by two or more persons. In other words, playing and participating in sports is a social game wherein children get to know how to get well with other children. It would give them a blazing start since actual work in the real world requires workers or employees who know how to blend well with the work environment that consists of various employees, superiors and norms and standards that all of the people within the workplace should adhere to. A good team player knows when to step up when the goings get tough, and knows how to play the role of a reinforce when at the sidelines. Ballgames like football, basketball, volleyball, etc. inculcate the essence of being a good team player.

The third reason is respect. Kids would know the word respect the moment they are immersed with sports. They learn how to learn from the cues handed by their coach and will also accept suggestions from their teammates. All kinds of sports teach the value of respectfulness.

The fourth reason is sportsmanship. There is a saying "You win some, you lose some, it balances out at the end". Sportsmanship teaches kids how to be strong and to be strong still even when defeat is on hand. Learning how to be humble when humbled is truly a great experience that kids should go through, for when they grow older they will be able to accept failures and mistakes. Doing necessary improvements and adjustments in life will help them become persistent and they would learn not to repeat same mistakes from the past.

The fifth reason is preparation. To win in a game intensive training and careful planning is required for "practice makes perfect". If a child needs hours to perfect his free throws in basketball, he should be allowed to do so as it will also boost his perimeter shooting. Similarly, if a child needs to swim better to rip existing records, he should be allowed to swim for several hours, as this will not only bolster his chance of lowering records but can also help him improve his endurance. It should be noted that the same principle applies to real life careful and thorough preparation is necessary in order to be almost perfect in executing every plan.

The sixth reason is determination. Sports improve the perseverance of kids. In order to win, a player should value hard work and patience while practicing crafts that will help him gain distinct edge in carving out success.

The seventh reason is health. It is possible to imbibe the value of health in children through sports. Children can be made to feel and realize the value of holistic lifestyle by making them indulge in different sports. It will open different avenues for healthy eating, exercise, ample rest and having enough sleep.

The final reason is competitiveness. Striving to win in every field can be surely built around playing sports. Willingness to give an all- out effort, showing grace under pressure and ability to accept defeat when losing to a better team or a player, are good indications of true competitive nature that a well-rounded player can extract from playing sports.

Thus, the importance of sports in the life of a young student is invaluable and goes much further than the basic answer that "it keeps kids off the streets". Sports impart lessons that are essential in the life of a student. They play a pivotal role in the makeup of a young child, especially in the middle school to high school years where students are much more mature and mentally developed. Important values like discipline, responsibility, self confidence, sacrifice, and accountability are not shown on Television, the Internet, or radio. It is up to the parents, teachers, sports teams, clubs, and after school programs to help mold, develop, and inject these qualities into the lives of students.

In order for this to happen, school sports programs must have a few components in place. The first thing they need is a good core of coaches that understand the great responsibility that is placed upon their shoulders to help shape and prepare their students not only in sports, but in their everyday lives. It is important that support should come from the community and administration. Students need to know they are appreciated and there is no greater way than for the community to get involved in youth sports.

Nowadays, parents as well as teachers seem to give less importance to sports. This is because they want their children to become either engineers or doctors. They tend to forget that all study and no play would affect the shaping of the child's personality. It is well known that only a sound body can boast of a sound mind. To fulfil this, sports should be included in school curriculum.

Swami Vivekananda said that we can reach heaven by playing football rather than by reading Gita. Hereby he had stressed the need for physical development. It is a pity that the second highly populated country in the world lags behind other countries in Olympic Games. This is because sports have not been given sufficient importance in our education system. If we want men with muscles of iron and nerves of steel, it is needless to say that sports should be made a part of school curriculum.

Sports and activities under physical education are needed for a balanced school week. They not only keep the students healthy but also give them a fun break from other schoolwork. For some academically challenged students it gives a chance to excel. Participating in sports on a regular basis increases the self-esteem of the students as they become fitter. Thus, having sports in the school curriculum would result in a fitter nation with less health problems.

In fact, regular participation in physical activity is associated with a range of physical and mental health benefits both in childhood and adulthood. Active children become healthy adults and schools play a key role in contributing to that outcome. So, sports should be made a compulsory and valued part of the school's curriculum and an integral part of a child's development.
