The Tennis Lesson
by The Purvv


The beginning of the end for Mark Milo and his 14-year-old daughter Stacy was on a Saturday at the public tennis court.

During the week, Stacy told her family that she wanted to learn to play and she asked her father if he would teach her. There was no way that Mark would refuse this. First of all, this was his pride and joy, for whom he would do anything. In addition, this was a game that he loved to play, but had not done so recently because of a lack of willing players. To Stacy's delight, her father readily agreed.

They had decided that they would practice every Saturday as soon as June, Mark's wife, went to work, because that would be early enough to claim a court before anyone arrived. Mark would give her some pointers and once she got the basic idea they would get to practice lightly.

It was on this first Saturday morning that her father moved behind her and began holding Stacy's hip and stomach as he guided her arm swing. Mark initially was not aware, but his crotch was pushing against his daughter's buttocks as he gave his advice. Suddenly, the heat from her soft ass cheeks penetrated into him and alerted his brain. To his horror, he felt his cock involuntarily swell inside of his pants. Then, his fully erect member was pushing into her bottom. When he realized what was happening Mark felt a tremendous flush of heat run through his face. He felt that he was probably as red as a beet from embarrassment. He was panic-stricken. His cock was completely aroused and actually twitching inside of his pants, against his daughter's ass. Flustered, he pulled his crotch away from her in a rush. Then he mumbled some last-second hurried instructions and quickly moved away from the youngster. He rushed over to the other side of the court and had her hit a few serves to him.

Mark quickly cut the lessons short, saying that she should not overdo it on the first day. She nodded. They got into his car and drove home.

Stacy herself was exhilarated and flushed, but only in part from the workout. During the aborted lesson, she had felt her father pressed against her and she was well aware of his hardness. When she first felt it, she wondered why he had become that way. Was it because he had to go to the bathroom? Was it something that she had done to cause it? Soon, she was sure that it was caused by their closeness. She felt it jump against her and she became acutely cognizant that her father's 'hardy' was pushing almost unnecessarily into her hip.

She had been especially thankful when her father pulled his body away from hers because she had been becoming nervous. Although Stacy was not a sexually active girl, she still realized what was happening. Now that her school had its 'publicly known incest incident' she was well aware that fathers could get 'that way' for their daughters, and Stacy had become much more conscious of her sexuality around her dad.

The 14-year-old girl reflected on what had happened and she soon accepted that her father must have pulled himself away from her as soon as he realized that he was hard. She did not fail to notice how red her dad's face had become and how flustered he was. She also took satisfaction from the fact that he did not try to do anything further. Stacy correctly assessed exactly what had happened. Her father's body betrayed him and became aroused at the close contact with her body. When she finally had the whole picture in her head, the youngster felt for him, knowing how embarrassed he had been.

They did not speak to each other for the entire trip home. As he drove, Mark replayed repeatedly in his mind what had just transpired. How could this have happened? How could the touch of his own daughter have aroused him? He had never before had any inclination to touch her in an improper way. She was his daughter, for cristsakes! Many were the times that he had touched her and even seen her naked, but he was her father, and he had thought nothing of it at the time. As recent as a few months ago he had seen her breasts bared, because Stacy was never extra careful in front of him, and although she had filled out quite a bit from the last time he had seen her, he didn't pay any personal attention. He never did! Oh sure, he had taken note that she was developing an impressive set of tits (he even mentioned this to his wife June) but he was nothing more than a proud and admiring father then.

What had happened? What caused his body to react now? He wondered if Stacy had realized what had occurred. He reached a conclusion that she probably didn't, because she had not given any indication that she knew it was happening.

Mark was feeling terribly upset with himself. It was only a few weeks ago that he openly and loudly condemned incest when his daughter had come home from school with all of those questions. It seemed that a girl from the school had gotten pregnant, apparently by either her father or her brother and Stacy had a basket full of questions. Mark had gone on in depth about the sinfulness of brother-sister and father-daughter sex. Now he, himself, had gotten aroused and yes, even a little excited, by the feel of his own daughter's body.

When they arrived at their house Stacy noticed that her dad's hands were actually shaking. His eyes were purposely avoiding looking at hers. He was obviously having a hard time coming to grips with what had occurred. She hurried up to her room to think further on what happened and also why she herself had 'funny feelings' running through her.

During the remainder of the weekend, the young girl watched with interest as her father remained almost preoccupied. She was feeling terribly sorry for him in his frazzled state. June made no mention of it, so the young girl was not sure if her mother even noticed.

Much of the time when she was not watching her father with concern, Stacy's mind returned to Saturday morning's incident. It was not that big of a deal that should have caused her father to get so mad at himself, she thought. After all, it was not something that he purposely did. As she kept returning to his sadness in her head, she finally said to herself, 'He couldn't help himself. So what? He got hard and was pushing into me. If he was another father he probably would have felt his daughter's body and tried to do more. At least he was sensible and was able to stop his body's urges.' Even with her limited knowledge, Stacy still realized that Mark must have had a hard time in pulling away from her. She was aware just how easily men became excited and she was told how difficult it was for them to 'cool off'.

As she turned this all over in her head, she wondered how she would have reacted had he not stopped and had he decided to try to go further. Her first thought was that she would have screamed and ran away, but the more that she thought about it, small whispers of doubt troubled her mind. So what if he had touched her? Isn't it something they have done all of her life? If it made her father feel good, what would be wrong? It would not have been as if they were having sex.

Mark repeatedly continued to replay the scene in his head, and he thought of himself with disgust throughout Saturday and Sunday.

It was on Sunday night, after he went to bed, that he really got shocked. While running Saturday morning's episode through his mind for the umpteenth time, something strange happened to him. This time a hard-on came along with the memory. Lying in bed, he remembered his cock pressing against his daughter's buttocks, and he became just as hard now as he had then.

'My god, what's happening to me?'

Moments later, when he mounted his wife, his final shock occurred. Although he was physically fucking his wife June, he was mentally fucking his daughter Stacy. A subtle change had come over him. His mindset had totally transformed him from a loving father to an incest-driven being.

Beginning on the very next night, Mark began to look at his daughter in a completely different light. Without being obvious, he now permitted his eyes to take in and appreciate the twin beauties of Stacy's young and impressive chest and the exciting look of child-flesh on her already shapely legs. When no one was paying attention to him, his eyes ravaged the beautiful ass with its well-rounded cheeks.

As the week progressed, Stacy began to realize that her father was taking notice of her. Her immediate reaction was feeling relief, because he had refused to look at her at all over the weekend. Now, sensing his eyes on her, she began to feel happy for him that he had overcome his problem, and although she felt somewhat uncomfortable at the attention he was paying to her, she also felt a strange enjoyment and warmth.

At times during the rest of the week, their eyes would meet, and after a few seconds, they both would turn away. An observer might think that father and daughter were afraid of each other. One time, on Thursday night, their eyes locked upon each other. It was almost as if they were sending a silent message of love to the other.

On Saturday morning, they were back at the tennis court. As happened the week before, Mark was again meshed into his daughter from behind as he was teaching her how to swing. Once more, his cock felt the heat from her body, his nostrils sucked in the clean smell of feminine youth, and he felt the immediate hardness in his pants. It was pushing at the lower part of Stacy's soft ass-cheek.

Stacy felt it happening again too. She closed her eyes momentarily, deciding if she should react and, if so, what should she do? Should she pull away, if he didn't? His one hand was on her hip at this point and his other was guiding her swing. What if her father decided to move into her tighter, move his hands, and touch her in a 'wrong spot?'

Heat was rising now within the loins and minds of both father and daughter.

Stacy had rationalized much of her thinking during the week and she had almost justified the thought of her father touching her. She recalled thinking, 'So what if he had touched her? Isn't it something they have done all of her life? If it made her father feel good, what would be wrong? It wouldn't have been like they were having sex.' As the warmth ran through her, she actually began to want him to touch her. His cock was throbbing at her buttocks. She was not even thinking of tennis anymore. She wondered 'what-if' and then, after swallowing nervously, she pushed her rear back harder into her father's twitching manhood.

Mark's whole body tightened. Did he actually feel his daughter pushing back into him? Was she aware of what she was doing? Unable to control himself, all rational thinking somewhere in limbo, he loosened his hand on his child's hip and moved it over and onto her belly. Slowly, he pulled her back closer to him and he pushed his crotch even tighter into her ass. At the same time, his mouth moved to his daughter's ear and they held together for a long minute without either of them making any effort to stop themselves.

His chest and brain were pounding fiercely and his hands and body were trembling. Caution was almost nonexistent now. He knew that if Stacy did not put a stop to this that he would not be able to stop himself anymore. He had ogled her body and thought a lot about her all week and now, with her beautiful hot, young body molded to his, he realized the truth. He really wanted to fuck his child.

Finally, summoning up his courage, he whispered in her ear, "I love you sweetheart."

Stacy gulped. Heat was racing through her body too. She was frantic from fear yet she knew that she secretly wanted to allow her father to do whatever he wanted. Maybe she even wanted it, too. Her mind was thinking well enough to know that this would end if she said so. She knew that her father did not want it to stop, but he was not going to force her.

Her heart pounding; she answered back, whispering, "I know dad ... I know."

"Do you, sweetheart? Do you really know?" His voice was barely audible.

"Um hmm."

Did she really understand his state and what was happening? "Can we go home?" he asked.

Stacy tensed. My god, what was she doing? She should put an end to this now, but -- She now admitted to herself she did not want to stop it. Her legs were shaking and her whole being seemed to be trembling. Slowly, she moved out of her father's grasp and turned to face him. Her eyes sought and found his. She knew what he wanted. She told herself that if he wanted her, she would be thrilled. They were both silent for another 10 seconds and finally, looking nervously into his eyes, she said, "Whatever you wanna do dad. Whatever you want."

As they continued looking into each other's eyes Mark realized that his 14-year-old daughter was accepting him, although he still had a flicker of doubt. He knew how insane this was and he could cite all of the arguments against it, but his cock was making all of the major decisions now, and his cock wanted this young body very badly.

He wanted to be positive that she really was aware of what was happening. He considered asking her what she wanted, but he was afraid that would be too much and might scare her away.

"Stase, babe, you, er, are you, er aware ... Do you know why I want us to leave?" She nodded and smiled nervously and he continued, "Do you want to... ?"

Her eyes were filled with tears now. She took a very long time answering. "No dad ... I don't," she whispered. "But I ... I love you, too."

"No baby ... no. Let's just ... I'm sorry, babe ... C'mon, let's just get outta here. I'll take you home."

He had fought off the demons.

On the way home, he reached across the seat in the car and squeezed his daughter's hand as assurance to her of his love for her.

"I'm er, gonna drop you off at the house, sweetheart. Then I've got to run some errands," he said. "And baby... ? Thanks for being so good. And if I get that way anymore, get away from me, hah? I'm, it's no good ... I mean, it's bad babe. You don't have to do anything. I'll try not to get that way again ... I promise."

Stacy was silent for the whole trip home. She was relieved, yet somehow frustrated.

At the house, he dropped his daughter off and then, for the next few hours Mark went and wandered through the local malls.

That night at home, they both realized that it was not over. Their eyes began to continuously meet and hold on one another. Soon, the truth became obvious to both of them. The end was inevitable. Mark's eyes operated on her body whenever possible.

Later that night, Stacy went to bed and for the first time in her young life, her masturbation fantasy now included her father. She began to actually want him. She remembered his hardness and although she was afraid, she also had a secret desire.

Mark began fantasizing while looking at her. He could not help himself. He would look at her semi-full well-rounded tits and think of holding them. He would watch her near-perfect ass and imagine his tongue running over it. He was now becoming hard just from looking at his daughter's body.

Throughout the week up until the following Thursday the game continued. Like every other night leading up to this, whenever Mark felt that he was safely out of his wife's view his horny ogling was obvious to Stacy. He and his daughter kept looking at each other and both of them were becoming increasingly in need of the other.

On this night, Stacy said her goodnights to her mom and dad about a half-hour later than usual. As she got up to go to her room her eyes locked on her father's, and they remained locked. Finally, after a long silence she nodded to him, then broke the eye lock and went up to bed.

An hour later when Mark was sure that his wife was asleep, he arose and quietly walked out of the room, closing the door behind him. Then he walked over to his daughter's room. His naked cock rose within his robe as he raised his hand and knocked gently. His heart began beating harder as he turned the handle. He pushed the door open and moved inside, closing it behind him.

Stacy was lying in the bed on her side, facing the door. She was wide-awake, nervously watching her father. Her heart also began beating harder as he walked slowly toward her.

Mark's brain was pulsing, his mouth was dry and his cock was twitching and jumping inside of his robe as he looked at his beautiful daughter in the semi-darkness. He could see panic in her eyes and he noticed her heavy breathing. He detected a hungry look about the child.

She was about to get her first taste of hot sex and she was going to be filled by her father. Somehow, the thoughts excited her tremendously. As he came closer, Stacy bravely lifted the blankets in invitation.

Mark gasped as he saw the child's naked tits awaiting him as Stacy held the blanket aloft. She was obviously totally naked. He silently removed his robe and he watched the frightened and eager look in his daughter's eyes as they moved over his body on down to his crotch, where she stared at his massive hard-on. He moved slowly onto the bed, and with deliberation, he removed the blanket from her clutching hand. The youngster had been holding it so that he could get beneath it with her, but instead, he pushed it back off her completely and then placed his hand on her shoulder, gently pushing her hot looking body on its back. His eyes moved eagerly over the naked young flesh of his daughter.

Stacy's head was turned and she watched him hungrily as his eyes jumped rapidly over her breasts and down her stomach to the juncture of her young pussy with its soft blonde peach fuzz, and then down over her long legs, before reversing and repeating the entire course. When his eyes finally met with hers, he was fascinated. Until now, he was not sure about this. Now, seeing the wanton look of utter hotness on the youngster's face, Mark knew that this was what they both craved, incestuous sex! Father cock, daughter cunt!

Stacy's lips were trembling as his face moved toward hers. He was about to kiss his own daughter in a sexual encounter. He slid his body into hers and as he moved one hand onto a breast, the heat was immediate in his palm. He squeezed gently on her flesh and his hand cupped her breast.

The 14-year-old girl uttered a nervous whimper as a thrilling sensation tingled throughout her body. As her father's hand enclosed tighter on the wonderful flesh, the youngster moaned quietly. At the same time, his free hand went to her ear and his mouth moved onto her quivering lips. As their lips met, Stacy moaned deep into his mouth and her hands began clutching at the back of his head, drawing his mouth into hers. His lips were sucking at hers. Then she felt his tongue move desperately into her mouth and passionate thrills started shooting in her brain. Suddenly the child was on fire. Her grip tightened on her father's head and she eagerly turned her naked body into his.

Father and daughter were now engaged in an age old tradition of instinctive incestuous lust as the young girl sucked at his thrusting tongue and moved her hot needy body against his, while her hands held his head tightly. All of her female natural feelings were totally aroused. She could not get enough of his loving. Her body was twisting and grinding against his. She could feel her father's pulsating manhood pushing against her bare flesh.

"Ooooh, dad, daddad ... I..." She was muttering into his mouth while his tongue moved hungrily within her mouth.

Mark's fingers began squeezing at the fully protruded nipple on his daughter's chest. He pulled his mouth from hers and he moved his lips and tongue elsewhere. He began by kissing and lightly sucking at her pulsing neck. His daughter's hands remained at the back of his head, as he slowly tasted downward, causing her young body to begin squirming in excitement.

His one hand moved off of her breast and began to lightly trace itself along the vibrant flesh of the youngster's quivering stomach, belly and finally down to the mound of her excited pussy. As his fingers started to move lower, into the spread between her legs, his lips were suddenly enclosing on the nipple of her breast and his free hand now enclosed on her unoccupied tit.

It was a three-pronged attack upon the child and she was twisting from side to side frantically. Her head was exploding from the messages that were being sent to it. She was a bundle of sexual confusion.

"Ohhhhh..." she moaned as her father's hand moved into her cuntal area while he guided her to lay back on the bed.

Stacy's hips bucked up at his working hand. She felt her father's fingers begin to gently rub around the clit area. The youngster lost all of her sensibilities, moving and twisting her body about so that her pussy could get the maximum sexual pleasures of his wonderful fingers. As his lips suckled on the flesh of her tit, his tongue worked over the areola and nipple.

The child was on fire, as was Mark. He felt a spurt of cum shoot erratically over her leg and onto the bed. He had never felt so wild and hot. He moved his fingers expertly over and around his daughter's clitoris and she was writhing about from his ministrations.

"Ooooh dad daddy ooo I, I, ooo..."

Now he made another move. This time he slid his mouth off the flesh of his daughter's tit and he began the kissing and sucking routine, down over the child's incredibly excited flesh. At the same time, he was turning his body toward the opposite direction. The young girl was frantic beneath him. Tiny grunts of pleasure were coming from her throat. Then his mouth was upon the mound of his child's pussy. He finally moved his finger from her hardened clit and moved his hand down to her hole where he gingerly inserted two fingers into the fully moistened cavity.

Suddenly Mark moved over her and straddled his knees on either side of the child's body. His back was to her face. Stacy was becoming even wilder as she realized what her father was going to do to her. Her brain was on fire. She reached her hands out and clutched his ass at the same time as she was eagerly spreading her legs fully. He lowered his upper body and his mouth became suddenly dry as he sought the delicious pussy that was eagerly awaiting him.

His fingers were gently fucking in her virgin cunt and his mouth touched home. Stacy groaned aloud and her hot thighs tightened on her father's ear in a vise as his tongue pushed into the crack and landed on the clitoris. A frantic, spasmodic jolt shot upward through the child's body. His tongue began moving over and around the entire clit area, tasting and smelling the raw sex of his own daughter, whose body was now out of control. It craved. It needed to be fulfilled.

Stacy was bucking up and down now, more violent than ever. Her father was licking and sucking up and down and in and out. Her fingers were clutching desperately at the flesh of his ass and incoherent mutterings were coming from her mouth. Wild spasms were gripping and shooting through her insides as her climax was upon her.

The hot flesh of his daughter's soft smooth thighs tightened fiercely on his ears as he licked and tasted her moistened juices.

Finally, she was totally spent and panting, her mind terribly discombobulated. Mark moved seamlessly. Without Stacy even realizing that he had moved again, her father had climbed gently off her, turned his body back around and got up again. This time his legs were between hers and he was totally atop her body, although he was not exerting any pressure.

Mark's face moved inches above the youngster's. As they stared at each other, he could not believe the look of total wanton lust on his daughter's face.

"I love you baby," he whispered.

"I love you too daddy," she cooed softly.

He moved his lips back down on hers and she tasted the sex on him. This taste and smell on her father's mouth only fueled her sexual craving. Her hands moved frantically behind his head and pulled his face down hard onto hers. Her mouth opened and her tongue moved vigorously into his. This time his hands moved to her head, also, and then father and daughter were clutching, sucking and tasting frenetically at each other, moaning into each other's mouth.

His cock was bucking about around her cuntal area. Father was about to fuck daughter, and daughter...

"Make a baby in me daddy ... please! Please dad, do it!" she hissed hotly and then closed her mouth on his again.

Stacy's legs had instinctively parted and wrapped around him. Sweat was rolling off of both of them and they were twisting against one another in total ignorance of an outside world. Mark was mindless. His cock was at his daughter's hole, moving into the tight moistened channel.

He thought of her virginity only momentarily.

"Make me a baby, daddy ... make it ... do me..."

He plunged fiercely into his 14-year-old's cunt. Her mouth gasped and opened on his, stifling a muffled cry. Then she screamed in pain into his mouth when his stiff cock plunged into her depths, her legs straightening for a moment with the impact, and then instantly wrapping around behind his again. She groaned mournfully, clutching at his back and shoulders when he started pistoning his solid prick in and out of her hot cunt.

Mark's teeth were clenched and his breathing quickened by the second. He kept pushing his throbbing cock all the way into his daughter's tight pussy, and Stacy kept taking every inch of it and shuddering with the feel of it. He was eagerly pumping with a jerky thrusting motion. She squirmed and writhed beneath him, her hot thighs wrapped around his. Every time his solid prick cleaved into her aroused pussy she groaned all the louder, clutching wildly at his ass with her hands and urging him on to fuck her still harder. The juices from her were now flowing freely, she was shoving her wet pussy up at him and taking his pounding prick yet deeper.

"Like that, Daddy - like that, just keep doing it like that!" she gasped, fast becoming lost in the motion of their frenzied humping. Her father was showing no mercy as his cock was reaching its ultimate passion. Her words and actions had him completely out of his mind. He desperately wanted to cum inside of her. He continued pushing deep into the depths of her cunt and then pulling almost all the way out before plunging into the child again.

He was getting close, and he didn't miss a beat. His cock plunged deeply into his beautiful young daughter, straining to reach as deeply as possible. Each forward motion had purpose, and when his crotch slapped against hers he struggled to go still deeper. Stacy gasped and groaned aloud as she felt him penetrating slightly more, filling her channel with pulsating pressure. Her hands were clutching wildly at her father and her legs were wrapped tightly around his. As most of the pain had subsided, her body persisted, fucking up and down, striving for total fulfillment.

His long strokes changed to short ones as his cock surged with blood and his semen began to rise. Mark shuddered in pleasure as the sensitized head took short strokes along his daughter's steamy channel. The wet, hot pressure that surrounded him felt so great. He slid back an inch or two, then thrust fully inside, repeating the stroke over and over.

He gasped in joy as his semen moved closer. Finally he was at the verge. His loins were filled with pressure and tingling excitement. He was suddenly fucking like a jack rabbit, his body unable to stop itself as it thrust frantically up and down.

He suddenly twitched and ejaculated a stream of semen into his own daughter's belly. "Oh baby I'm cumming - here comes your baby, oh fuck, nggg, fuck back, make me cum in you."

The youngster's tight cunt was like a vise, squeezing and releasing, and Mark filled her cunt with all of his juices.

Stacy too felt more spasms and she felt the wondrous pleasures amidst the numbed pain. She continued bucking up and down and clutching at her father.

"Ohhhhhdaddy, dad, daddy ... Ooooooohhhh..."

He maintained the thrusts, twitching several more times, as his balls continued to empty their contents, planting his incestuous seed deeply inside her body.

"AAAAAAHHHHH!" Pounding and draining; less pounding, less cum.

They both held on to each other for their dear life as the wild sensations began to slow down. They continued moaning and groaning. Finally, they were both totally finished.

Tears were rolling down Stacy's cheeks. The pain had been terrible. She told her father so. "Wow, that hurt dad ... bad!" she managed between sobs.

Mark sighed. He felt sorry for her now, but in all truth, he could not have stopped himself at the time. God, did he really cum inside of his own daughter?

"It's okay baby. I promise. It won't hurt next time."

"There'll be no next time. That I can promise!!!"

That was the voice of June, Mark's wife and Stacy's mother.

