At midnight, Paul went outside and sat on the bench on the old, plank porch. Despite bundling himself in a heavy blanket, he shivered in the cold. The eastern sky before him was dotted with stars, scintillating above the quiet spread of desert. A few lonely clouds were drifting by.

Patricia timidly opened the door; hesitant to disrupt Paul’s solitude. As he glanced up at Patricia, she could see the melancholy in his eyes.

“What you said today at the funeral was beautiful,” she murmured.

Paul smiled sadly.
“I just wanted to tell you that. Good night.”

Paul extended his hand. “Would you join me?”

Patricia took his hand and sat down on the bench next to him. Paul wrapped the blanket
around her small shoulders. She turned to look at him.

“I suppose that I have never properly thanked you for saving my life. I am sorry for that. I was not sure then that I wished it saved.”
He thought about her words. “What keeps you with him?” he asked.
It took a long time for her to answer. “It is my lot.”
Paul frowned. “That’s not much of an answer.”
“No,” she replied, “but maybe that’s all there is.”
“Have you considered returning to Ireland?”
“It is not a possibility.”
“But if it were?”
“No good comes from considering things that cannot be.”
Patricia was firm. Paul considered this a moment before speaking.
“I suppose you’re right. Where about in Ireland are you from anyway?”
“I came from Cork.”
“You do not carry much of a brogue.”
“I have worked hard to eliminate my brogue. Jack mocks me for it, and there are those in this country who hate me for it.”
“It is unfortunate,” Paul said. “I think that it sounds beautiful.”

Her gratitude and pleasure showed in her eyes. Paul glanced downward and noticed her petite fingers nervously playing with a locket that hung around her neck. The locket was cast in the shape of a four-leaf clover. It was unique, and she wore it religiously–it was almost as if she had been born with the necklace around her neck. It was as much a part of her as her deep auburn hair and green eyes.

“I have heard it said of Cork, that the sky does not rain, it weeps,” Paul continued.
“It is a beautiful, tragic land,” Patricia replied. “I love what I remember of it. At least before the famine. Ireland is a magical place to be as a child. My father always said that there are sounds in Ireland you could hear nowhere else. At night the wind would sing lullabies through the trees.”

She pulled the blanket tighter around her. “Now, when the wind blows, I can hear music in the desert as well, but it is not nearly as beautiful.”

She sighed before again looking over at him, and continuing, “Have you ever considered going back home?”
Without hesitation, Paul whispered, “Every day.”
“Yet you stay?”
“I’ve come too far to go back.”
“How can you be too far when your family waits?” Patricia probed.
“I might ask you the same,” came his swift retort.
“No one waits for me in Ireland.”
Paul looked down. “How is it that you came to be with Jack?”

“It was during the potato famine. Jack was in Ireland securing passages on a vessel. My
family was starving. Everyone was starving. My father had gone out searching for food, when he came upon Jack. Jack could have helped us all to sail to America in exchange for a portion of our wages once we were employed. But my father did not want to leave. Instead he sold me to Jack- for a sum large enough for the family to remain and survive.”

“Your father told you this?”
“No. Jack did.”
“And you believed Jack?”
Patricia did not answer immediately. “I saw him pay my father.”
“That alone does not prove Jack’s words.” Paul looked at her gravely. “It is precisely the lie Jack would have you believe.”
“For what purpose?”

“If Jack can convince you that your existence is a commodity, he can use your feelings of worthlessness to control you. False beliefs can be a chain to our souls. Only if we hold on to who we truly are, can we be free. The danger is when circumstances lead us to forget.”
Patricia looked shaken. “Those were my father’s last words to me—‘Remember who you are . . .’,” Patricia whispered in a voice barely audible as she clutched the locket around her neck.

She squeezed the little four-leaf clover until her knuckles turned white, as if grasping for something within the necklace itself.

“I can’t know what went through your father’s mind as he gave you up. Maybe your father knew what kind of man Jack was, maybe he didn’t. It is likely that he knew that there was no other way to help you. Perhaps he did what he had to do to give you a chance at life,” Paul replied as he noticed Patricia’s uneasiness. Her beautiful face was marked by a touch of anxiety. Her lips quivered as she gazed into the sky, as if searching for her lost soul, and believing that she would find it caught up in the spray of stars.

Paul looked out into the starry night, hoping he, too, could find the real Patricia. “We often do not see things in this life as they really are- only as we believe they are. It is as written in the Bible, ‘We see through a glass darkly, . . .’ but no glass is so dark, I think, as the looking glass in which we view ourselves.”

“But a mirror cannot lie,” Patricia countered. “It is just polished glass.”
“It is not the mirror that lies. Never does man err more greatly than when he tries to see who he really is.”
“And who are we?”
Paul looked into her soft, green eyes. “We are worthy, Patricia. Worthy of life. Worthy of love. Worthy of kindness and gentleness. We are not some mistake of God or nature.”
Patricia did not want Paul to see her cry. She bowed her head, pulling the blanket above her chin.

“Until you can see yourself worthy, you will forever be chained. Not by Jack, or any man, but by your own perceptions.”

As he reached over and touched her hand, she grasped his tightly.
“I want to believe you. But perhaps I am too far gone.”
“You may not be as far as you fear. What do you remember of your father?”
She closed her eyes tightly and tried to remember. “He used to come back from the fields
each day, and his face would light up when he saw me. He called me his ‘little colleen.’ The night before I left, he gave me this.”

Dialouge - The Locket

She reached into the blackness beneath the blanket to pull out her locket. She unhooked the tiny clasp and, ever so gently, raised it by its gold chain until it hung and shimmered in the moonlight. Gold outlined the deep green enameled four-leaf clover that shone boldly before them.

Patricia had worn this necklace as long as Paul had known her. He had always wondered what was inside, but never felt it in his place to ask. After a few moments of silence, Patricia unlocked it to reveal the secret held within.

“That’s my mother, on the right. She died when I was born, but I was always told by my brothers and father how beautiful and strong she was,” Patricia said aloud. Then she looked down into her lap before continuing. “My father also told me that every day he looked at me, he saw her.

He saw her determination, her poise. The resemblance was unbelievable. He had this tiny mirror placed on the side opposite her picture, so as I looked at me, I could also see her, feel her presence, and gain strength from her love.”

Several minutes stretched by where neither said a word. As Patricia peered into the mirror, searching for answers, Paul felt pity for her. She had the kindest of hearts, and he hated Jack for taking advantage of her innocence, compassion, and trust. Woman like Patricia were hard to come by.

“What do you see?” Paul finally asked, breaking the silence.
“What do I see? I see me, plain and simple,” she answered. Her left eyebrow was raised in bewilderment as she pondered the meaning behind his question.

“Come on now, you’ve got to look harder than that. Don’t tell me you’ve been wearing that necklace for all of these years, and all that you’ve noticed is your reflection! You just told me that a mirror never lies. So look again, and tell me if the woman looking back at you is letting the beauty of her mother shine through. Tell me if you see a woman worthy of love and life. Tell me if you remember who you are and all that you’re worth,” Paul said with a passion that he had intended. He wasn’t going to let Patricia give up that easily; he would never forgive himself for it.

Patricia looked startled at first, and then began to cry. Openly she let the tears flow, as if
washing away her feelings of worthlessness and lack of self-confidence.

“I don’t know what I see anymore,” Patricia said softly, her voice wavering.

“Look,” Paul said as he put the mirror before her brimming, emerald eyes. “I see the real
Patricia struggling to come through. Her beauty and strength radiates so brightly, that I do not know how you’ve been hiding her for so long.”

“I remember. I remember who I am,” Patricia cried in a mix of sadness and joy. “I am worthy of more than I’ve become.” Throwing herself into Paul’s arms, she squeezed him as tightly as if she were holding onto life itself. Paul grazed the top of her head with his lips and pulled her closer into his embrace.

Several more minutes passed. No words were needed. He gazed back out at the starry night and the peaceful desert before looking back down at Patricia, watching her fall asleep with her locket clutched tightly in one hand. Her searching had left her exhausted. Yet Paul knew she was going to need more than rest to prove to herself just how strong she really was. As he began to doze off, a gust of wind picked up. He faintly heard the wind singing as it blew across the desert, and it was beautiful. 
