The Influence of Music

Musical instruments have played many major roles in helping with the construction of many societies around the world today. Many people do not realize what musical instruments have been responsible for and how they have helped shape the world today. There have been many instruments that have helped create and sculpt the world, but one instrument that I want to inform readers about is the trumpet and where it came from, as well as how it has changed over many years. The point that I am arguing is the fact that many people do not know where the trumpet has come from and how it has affected society.
The trumpet has been used for many years for many different uses that many folks do not even know about or have even thought about. In some societies it was used in the military during attacks and to give direction in wars. For example, bugles and drums were used to call troops to the line to let the fights proceed. The bugle is not exactly a trumpet, but it is a very close relative. The bugle is one of the trumpets’ decedents that helped with the creation of the valved trumpet.
Many people think that the trumpet has always looked the same way it does now, which is very untrue. The trumpet has gone through several different changes in looks as well as mechanical. The first trumpets were seen in Africa and several other countries thousands of years ago. It started as a piece of wood that was hollowed out by bugs and insects to form a sort of pipe and blown through to make noises. Animal horns have also been used as “trumpets” to make noise and give direction in ceremonies.

These instruments have been seen in almost every culture in one form or another over the years. One can say that they have respectively had an impact on the way societies have been run and certain issues have been handled. The trumpet has been used for relaying help messages during war as well as starting battles and even to call attention to masses of people.

It is very unfortunate that the youth of the world today do not know how little things such as where the trumpet came from has affected society and possibly the way they live there own life.

Today the trumpet is used for making music in many different kinds of musical situations. It is used in musicals with other instruments for theme music as well as dance music. The modern day trumpet is also used in marching bands, concert bands, as well as jazz bands. My favorite setting where the trumpet is used is brass choir, where only two trumpets are used along with a trombone, tuba, and French horn. There are so many venues that the trumpet is used that many do not think about, such as rock bands and even country bands. When most people think of the trumpet, they think of marching bands or concert bands, but in reality the trumpet has a much wider variety that it is used for in today’s world than many think.

According to Edward Tarr in his book titled, “The Trumpet,” he explains that the use of an instrument called a “trumpa” was used and was locally referred to as a “tubae.” “As Richard was pausing in Sicily before setting out for Palestine, a new kind of instrument – the trumpa – was demonstrated to him. Roger of Wendover (d. 1236) wrote about ‘tubae called the trumpae’. This instrument was mentioned for the first time around the year 1180 in the writings of William of Palermo. It is possible that the trumpa, too, was of Arabian origin, because the Normans had driven the Saracens out of Sicily only nine years before, taking over many of their customs (Tarr 39).” The trumpae helped pave the way for the future of the pronunciation of the word trumpet. “The word ‘trumpa’ was to become particularily important in the future, for the modern terms for the trumpet in the most important European languages developed from diminutive forms of this term: in German, trumpa, trumb, Trum(m)et, Trompete; in French, trompe, trompette; and in English, trump, trumpet (Tarr 39).” A little while later the word trumpet was then formed and has been used since.

Musicians of the medieval period were considered lower class citizens that had few rights, if any. They were denied by most people to have jobs as well as to be rendered services. “In the Middle Ages, musicians, actors, and the like were not regarded as having any rights at all, because they generally had no permanent place of residence, appearing here and there at festivals and fairs (Tarr 43).” People were not very accepting of citizens who involved themselves in the arts as well in that time period.

The way a trumpet or any instrument sounds depends mainly on what metal or metals it is made with and the quality of how the instrument is put together. “As we have already seen, most metal trumpet of antiquity consisted of cast bronze. Only the silver trumpets of the ancient Israelites, the Egyptian trumpets, and certain exceptional instruments were chased, that is, made out of sheet metal (Tarr 50).” Trumpets have been made out of many different metals during the 1400s but no one could really settle on one metal to make all of them from.

Many musicians were tired of being discriminated against so they decided to start a group that would have some power in the society in which it was placed. Some organizations that were created would not accept a trumpet player as a member of there group so they usually had to start there own or be involved in one. “Although trumpeters are not expressly mentioned as members of the above associations, no doubts regarding their participation are left by the statutes of a society founded in 1458 in Stuttgart; they state that the convocation of ‘trumpeters, pipers and lute-players . . . into a brotherhood’ is confirmed (Tarr 63).”

The metal industry has had a huge impact on what metals trumpets are made of and the price of the end result. Many metals have been used in this industry, but one metal that has seemed to be very popular is brass. Brass is the metal that produces the best sound quality and as well as resonation. “The supply of raw materials at competitive prices is the key to any successful and enduring industry. The rapid development of Nuremburg brass instrument production between the sixteenth and eighteenth centuries is a symptom of a greater prosperity throughout the metal industry. The industry was catalysed by and increased flow of raw materials, particularly copper, which came about as a result of a change in the pattern of trade at the close of the Middle Ages (Barclay 11).”

Brass is a highly coveted metal that is made for instruments and other industries. “To state that brass is an alloy is to apply a modern understanding of it which is quite out of place. Unlike bronze, which was known from prehistory to be an alloy of copper and tin, brass was thought to be copper which had been turned yellow by the influence of an earth, hence the Roman name aurichalcum or golden copper. In Classical times this magical earth was called cadmia (Barclay 34).”
The modern day trumpet is made with three valves and two tuning slides, as well as one main tuning slide. “Orchestral Trumpet in Bb (English and French models). Tube length 53 inches (134.6 cm. approx). Main tube 0.45-0.465 inches in diameter, coiled in a single loop. Normally three piston valves. Mouthpipe slightly tapered for the first 5-9 inches. Bell expansion begins in, or just after, the last U bend. Bell diameter averages 4.6 inches (Bate 42).” Most modern trumpets are built with about these same dimensions in mind.

Many religious ceremonies use musical instruments even today. The trumpet is probably one of the most popular and widely used instruments for church music and even weddings. Almost every wedding nowadays has either a trumpet player or an organist, if not both. The trumpet has made itself and extraordinary versatile instrument that can be seen almost everywhere. Every church that I have been to uses a piano as there primary source of music and occasionally other musicians accompany the pianist in a duet. Churches all over the world have been using music as a form of expression for hundreds of years and usually attain other instrumentalists to play along. Some churches even have a full band that consists of a trumpet section, trombone section, tuba section, and various woodwind instruments including some percussion instruments. “The Paalölöqangw project out of the altar and dance rhythmically, while a priest behind the screen blows on a trumpet to animate the roaring voice of the serpent (Mills and Ferguson 341).”

Since the beginning of trumpet manufacturing there has always been different qualities of instruments, usually of lower and higher quality. Still today, manufacturers usually have several different grades of instruments, some which are cheaper and more expensive. “The above impression of craftsmanship in decline is complicated by the fact that two qualities of instrument were always offered. Run-of-the-mill instruments were produced in huge quantities, but the master trumpet-maker still worked on special commissions (Barclay 28).”

The trumpet is a very widely used instrument all over the world, but what some musicians do not know is that it had its ups and downs with its popularity. “The period between 1750 and 1815 was a time of crisis for the trumpet. On the other hand the art of clarino playing was brought to its zenith, and the court trumpet corps offered it most significant music (Tarr 138).” Fortunately, for many musicians, the trumpets popularity rose and was used for many different styles of music and musical situations.

Almost since the beginning of instruments there has been a place to learn about them and how to play them. Today, there are many schools that focus strictly on instrumental performance and with some schools how to teach music. Just to mention one school of music, the Paris Conservatory, there have been many great trumpet teachers over many years. Some of the teachers at the Paris Conservatory include Merri Franquin, Eugene Foveau, Raymond Sabarich, Ludovic Vaillant, and Maurice Andre. These are some of the worlds greatest and most famous trumpet players the world has ever seen.
There have been many famous exceptional instrumentalists in the world that society does not know about. Still today, there are many up and coming world-class musicians that have not been brought out to the public eye and it is unfortunate that these terrific musicians will not be seen or heard from.
Music has helped many people including some doctors to get patients through hard times with some psychiatrists. Music relaxes people and helps some to focus and some to readjust after a hard life.

The classical realm of music is a dying practice that is killing jobs and hurting the youth of the world. Many states public school have banned music classes in their institution and the countries children are missing out on a musical education. I believe that many students would have something to do and man would not end up in jail or in trouble.

The trumpet has upheld many different characteristics of the world such as war and peace. The instrument has led militaries in wartime and has even been used to place people to rest at funerals. Many people have relied on the instrument as a source of income and entertainment. From its beginnings, the trumpet has performed many tasks for numerous people and communities around the earth.

The trumpet has provided music for presidents and even kings and queens throughout time and has been used as an enjoyable source of entertainment for millions of people. The trumpet can be seen in marching bands, concert bands, and jazz bands around the country. It is probably the most recognizable instrument in the world, if a survey was taken about instruments.

The trumpet has had its rough times in history as well as its ups and downs around the United States. It is very popular in jazz bands especially, and almost every instrumental jazz group in New Orleans has at least one trumpet, if not more. Overall, the instrument has been seen in nearly every country on the planet and is globally known.

My purpose in writing this paper was to let readers know where the trumpet came from and how it has influenced the world and shaped it over time. I want people to know how our own society has been changed due to the power of music and the impact it has made on many people around the world. Music has made it possible for many people to do great things with their lives and great things to help the people around the world.

