My Monster Mate


Prologue
========

Humans have know about werewolves for 8 years now, werewolves have been ruling the world for 3. Most humans hate what they do. They make us live in one town for our whole life and don't let us leave unless a were' is traveling with us. And every town you live in is a different 'pack' as they call them. And you have to be part of the 'pack' even if you don't what to.

They say they let us live because they what to live in 'peace and harmony'. Yeah right! Like this world has ever know 'peace and harmony'! (sarcasm).
The only reason they let us live, is because one of us might be one of their so called 'mates'. And when when you find your 'mate' ( if you have one) they ship you off to their 'pack' and get you pregnant within a month. 

Or in a boys case, you get them pregnant. But boys have it easy, cause they don't have to have sex with them, unless they want to. But if your a girl... Oh you'll be in for a ride.

Personally I hate them. I just wanted to live a normal life with normal friends, a normal best friend, and have normal kids. But that all came crashing down when 'he' came into the picture.

'He' in being my monster mate.



Chapter 1
=========

"Can you believe it!" My over excited friend Casey asked us. "we're graduating on Saturday! Aren't you guys excited?!"

"well...yes...and,no. Yes because we'll have the stress that comes with school gone. No, because we won't be able to go to college." My best friend Bailey said.

"I have to agree with Bailey there." I spoke up.

We were sitting outside for lunch at a picnic table like every other day.( since we live in California the weather is usually nice). Just then the bell rung signaling we get back to our classes. We all let the werewolves go in first,(like always,putting us last) then went inside.

Our group ( me, Casey, Bailey, Reese, and, Markis ) parted ways for our different classes.

Me and Reese walked together to our next class. ( since we had it together ).

"So, your not excited for graduation?" I asked him, bringing back the subject from lunch.

"Yes,but I just wish it could wait a little longer. The school-year has gone way too fast." Reese stated.

"So what do you plan to do this summer?" I asked him. We were standing at the doorway, waiting for the wolves to take their seats first.

"I plan on-" he started, but just then our literature teacher Miss Dissen stormed into the room yelling "take your seats!". The old bat.

Literature was as long and boring as every other day. When the bell rung we all hurried to get out of that horrid classroom. The rest of my classes went smoothly though. When the last bell rung we all made our ways to the parking lot.

I walked up to my group of friends.

"Did you guys hear?" Markis asked us. "the alphas having a party for his sons graduation on Saturday night, and we all have to come."

"Awww,foowie! I hate the alphas house!" I whined.

"Yeah, and his wife agrees to everything he says." Bailey said, noticeably shuddering.

 

That reminded me of something.

"Oh, I almost forgot! My moms been begging me to come visit. See you guys later." I said walking away from them to my cars.

I don't like visiting my mom. It's not because I don't like her, it's because I don't like her 'mate' or her son. You must be wondering how I'm not a werewolf. When my mom was 17 she accidentally had me with my dad. They raised me til I was 3 and then, the year my mom was 20 she found her 'mate'. He then shipped me and my mom from our nice home in New York, to crazy California. A year later my half brother Dylan was born. When I turned 16 I moved out of their apartment above their diner and got my own place.

I pulled up in font of their small diner, and parked on the shoulder of the road. I made my way out of my car and into the diner.

I only made it a few feet inside, and then was picked from behind by my waist.

"awww, sissy I missed you so much and-"

"Dylan! Put me down!" I screamed at my brother. Ever since he was 3 he could pick me up. And let me remind you I'm 4 years older than him.

"What's the magic word?" he asked sweetly.

"Now." I growled out.

"Ok,ok. Jeeze." he said, putting me down.

I swiped around to face him. "don't touch me." I commanded him. He towered over my height of 5'2 in his height of 5'11.

"But sissy I-"

I turned away from him,only to be ambushed again. This time by my mom.

"Hows my baby girl?" she asked while hugging me.

"Good,good." I chuckled at her behavior.

"Let's go talk upstairs." she urged, pulling me to the back of the diner, to the wooden staircase.



"So, how's school been?" she asked once we were both seated on her cozy sofa.

"it's good, but I know I'll miss it." I said talking about graduation.

"Your so grown up, and beautiful." she  said admirably, tucked some of my long midnight black hair behind my ear.

I got all my looks from my dad. Well I had my dads black hair and brown eyes, but my moms facial features.

"so, any boys?" my asked with a sly smile.

"Mom." I groaned, putting my head in the pillow on my lap in embarrassment.

"or mates." my head shot up at once, as did my whole body, as I jumped off the sofa.

"Really mom?" I asked scowling at her. " You really think that lowly of me?"

With that said I made my way back downstairs, to the front of the diner, with mom right on my tail. Dylan tried to give me another hug on the way out but I dodged him.

Right when I was steeping out the door, I heard him ask my mom, " Why doesn't she like me?" in a hurt voice.

Wow. That really Brought me down.

I hurriedly got in my car and made my way over to my apartment.

Great. Now my mom wants me to find my mate.



Chapter 2
=========

The rest of the week pasted pretty fast. Which saddened Bella. Before she even knew it, it was Saturday, and she was getting ready for graduation.

"Ok, almost done...just let me apply some lip stick...and...done!" Bailey exclaimed as she backed away from me, to look at her work.

"Let me see! Let me see!" I said pushing her out of the way so I could see myself in my bathroom mirror.

"Wow...I look hot!"I exclaimed.

"You know it! Aw shoot, we're gonna be late!", Bailey said,looking down at her phone.

"Well lets go then!" I said grabbing her arm and pulling her out of the bathroom. I admired myself on last time in my full length mirror in my small bedroom. I had a strapless dress that ended at my knees, with  different types of warm colored flowers, a pair of red high heels with matching red lip stick.

I then made my way out of my bedroom to grab my purse at the front door.

"You got the robes?" I asked bailey, while shutting and locking the front door to my apartment.

"Yeah, there in my car." And with that, we made our way to her car, and drove off to our school.

  * * *

"Hold still or I might poke you!" I said trying to stick the safety pin in the right spot on Baileys overly large robe.

"You already did poke me! Twice!" she said exasperatedly, as she held up her long straightened chocolate brown hair.

"Ahh! Finally!" I said finally sticking it in the right place.

"You guys ready!?" A jumpy Casey asked.

"Let's just get this over with." I sighed.

"Ok, graduates! Let's all make a straight line in the order we practiced, so that  we go out there in an orderly fashion, ok? Alright now lets just wait for kelly to get her speech done, and then get out there!"our principle Mr. Chang yelled to us over all the talking.

Once Kelly was done, and the music started, we finally made our way out to the huge football field.

"I'd like to thank everyone for coming today. This year we had 324 graduates..." and that was pretty much all I listened to. To be honest the only thing I could concentrate on, was keeping the sweat off my forehead. And these large purple robes and hats didn't help a bit.

I only started to pay attention because the people in front of me started getting up one at a time.

Oh, crap!

Did they start calling out names yet?

"Arabella Roberta Gonzel'."

Wait a second. That was my name.

Somebody behind me slightly nudged my shoulder. I stood up abruptly and made my way to the front where they were handing out diplomas.

I got my picture taken with my principle and diploma, and then made my way back to my seat.

Wow. That was embarrassing.

After that I tried to pay attention, I really did! But when your on a hot football field for 2 hours straight and all that's happening is people calling out names, well...it's pretty hard to pay attention. In the end I ended up getting my phone out of my bra and playing candy crush. Yes, I know it sounds weird, but I had no where else to put it! 

I quickly turned off my iPhone when everyone started to stand.

"Ok, now let's all congratulate the graduates of 2013! Graduates, you may now now throw those hats in the air, because you guys did it!"

Then there was lots of yelling and screaming of happiness as all the people in the tall bleachers made their ways onto the football field. I threw my hat in the air,like everyone else was doing, but kept my eyes on it. I still wanted to keep it.

I watched as it fell into a huddle of graduates, and then made my way over to retrieve my hat.

As I made my way over, one of the taller guys that didn't have a graduation outfit, caught my attention. He had his arm around a younger girl who had on a graduation outfit. As I approached the group, I soon recognized the group. Werewolves. 

I was about 10 feet away. I looked down at their feet. There sat my graduation hat. Was it really worth it? Com'n Bella! Don't be a coward.

I looked up at their faces again. The taller one without the graduation robe on, seemed to be looking around for something. And might I just say he looked fine.

What am I saying!? He a werewolf! Keep it cool Bella!

You can do this Bella! Deep breaths! In-out-in-out!

I started walking again. When I was about 2 feet away, they finally looked up at me expectantly.

"That's my hat." I said pointing at the hat on the ground front of them stupidly.

I looked up at them again. This time the taller guy really caught my attention. His eyes were black, which clashed perfectly with his messy blond hair, might I add.

Wait. What? What the heck am I thinking! He's one of them! He's-

But my thoughts were soon interrupted by his husky voice growling out :

"Mate."

My eyes widened to the size of golf balls, and all of their eyes did too.

Say what now?!

And with that, I turned on my heels and ran.

Oh crap!



I forgot my hat.



Chapter 3
=========

(James POV)

I arrived only halfway  through my sisters graduation. Since pack business held me up. 

I am the alpha of dark night pack. I didn't like bring in fort ravens pack territory, but when my sister was 16 she found out her mate was the soon to be third in command of that pack, so she moved over here with him.

Me and my pack live in the center of Montana.

Anyway, by the time I arrived they were already half-way through the graduation. By then they were almost done calling names. I got up on the bleachers and waited for it to end, so I could see my sister.


"Ok, now let's all congratulate the graduates of 2013! Graduates, you may now through those hats in the air, because you guys did it!" the principle said.


All the people in the bleachers started making their way onto the field, as all the graduates through their hats in the air. 

I made my way onto the field, trying to concentrate only on my sisters scent. I got a whiff of her scent and started to follow it. As I was tracking her, I also got a whiff of something else. It was the best thing you've ever smelled. It was like...vanilla...and oranges. And that's say'n something, cause I don't even like oranges!

But now I think their may favorite food. Well that and vanilla.

Not now James! Concentrate on Gracie! You know, you sister!

Ok, got it! As soon as I find Gracie I'll go see what that smell is.

I kept walking looking for Gracie, til I saw her with her mate Harley. I soon as walked up to them Gracie jumped on me.

"James!" She squealed, "I missed you so much!"

"And, I missed you too Gracie." I chuckled. I wrapped my arm around her shoulder and heard her mate growl at me.

"Relax, I'm her brother. I'm not gonna try anything pup." I added the 'pup' just to irritate him. I Gracie elbowed me in the ribs, giving me a signal to cut it out.

We stood there talking for a bit, til a noticed the sweet scent of vanilla and oranges, getting more pronounced.

Dear god, I better find what is making that scent soon or I might go crazy!

Then I saw her. My eyes darkened from the rush of love and lust I felt for her. She was beautiful. From her long black hair to her chocolate brown eyes.

I wanted her. And I wanted her now.

All the sudden she spoke the sweetest sound I ever heard.

"That's my hat." she said pointing to the hat in the middle of us.

Everything seemed to stand still for a minute, as I admired her beauty.

Then I growled out, in a rough voice:

"Mate."



I felt everyone's eyes on me. Then, as if on instinct, she took off. I let go of my sister, and took off chasing her.

And I knew I wouldn't stop chasing her til I had her in my arms.



(Arabella's POV)

I ran as fast as my little legs would let me. I knew he was right on my tail. Don't ask me how I knew, I just had this feeling.

I kept running in between people, and purposely pushed them together to get in his way. His growl of frustration made me run harder. I knew sooner or later he'd catch me.

I ran right into the front of someone, and they caught me in their arms, before I fell over on my bum.

I looked up and saw the last person I expected.

"Dylan?" I said in disbelief. "What are you doing here?"

"Well, I wasn't going to miss my big sisters graduation." he said hugging me to his chest.

I pushed away from him.

"I need your help." I rushed out.

"Um...Ok, what is it?" he asked, sounding unsure.

"Well...um...there's this guy and-"

"Oh, good. You got her." the voice that made shivers run up my spine said. I told myself they were shivers of disgust, but even I knew they were the completely the opposite.

I hurriedly got behind my 14 year old little brother, using him as a shield. I heard the blondy (I'm just gonna call him blondy, until I learn his name) growl in response to my actions.

"Alpha James." Dylan said bowing his head.

Oh great! Thats just great! He's an alpha! A freaken' alpha of all people!

